Gwenevere Abriel: Hi, good morning.
Ariel Mirabal: Good morning, please.
Gwenevere Abriel: Audio, video and sink.
Ariel Mirabal: I gotcha.
Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so, um, any challenges today, or we've got some good timing right now to kind of have some some focused attention. Fantastic. So I had about 20 seconds right before you came here to look over our previous note.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think what we did what we we put a good amount of effort into developing your anchor room.
Gwenevere Abriel: We are not done. But I want to check in on yet and see if there's anything kind of right happening now. Because sometimes, life gets like yeah and that's what we're presenting with. So I want to check in with you and see if there's anything that's kind of present for you.
Ariel Mirabal: Know, actually, you feel, I feel totally okay today.
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll take it.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: For out one. This is a great day then to do kind of what can feel like both difficult and relieving but again the destination is to have a safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of happy places. Happy Room this happy safe room that has everything that Lou LaBelle needed at the time and so can I kind of bring us back a little bit through some of the
Gwenevere Abriel: details that you shared with me and see if I can bring us back to that moment because now we've got lots of time.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we might be able to get get all the way through it. If not, that's fine too. Okay. Um, so again, just to remind you, no way for us wrong whatever comes up just share it with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you got your coffee. I'm still caffeinated myself here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So little slow feeling a little slow myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's what I see, I see the original description of feeling blocked was around being open to speak with Arlene to get close to her, and that's how it originated, or is it took you know involved.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that was the original identified area feeling blocked the emotion was sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: The body so much somatic experience was not in the stomach and the labeled emotion anxious
Gwenevere Abriel: And you notice a wiggling in the fingers and I tried to focus or feet and I'm really trying to think, yes, it being discreet know
Gwenevere Abriel: The right bounces and wiggles. I guess that might be maybe the right side.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So then you share a story about eight years ago.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hartman
Gwenevere Abriel: And Russ, his mom asked
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm assuming asked for us. Do you miss my cooking.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and then the notes says at age six I was always shy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the nickname is Lou LaBelle and this room that you described was an additional room. The color was changing at that time from pale green, pink and purple deep bread. And then I think eventually I'll see that it had a set color, but this is how it started.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a large window facing the mountains and I can see out nice view no blinds or curtains. There's crisscross windows.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can hear the hummingbirds.
Gwenevere Abriel: At the window.
Gwenevere Abriel: The room is empty.
Gwenevere Abriel: Open blank space. It's quiet. It's a peaceful place.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's peace and thoughts.
Gwenevere Abriel: See, and then
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, one side would be trees and river. I guess it's like a mural maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, like that working. Is it painted
Ariel Mirabal: It was painted mural. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, painted
Gwenevere Abriel: don't always get everything everybody says
Gwenevere Abriel: No.
Ariel Mirabal: No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah nature on one of the walls and the wall that is opposite the window is that mural of a forest. And you can see now the light blue color to the left and the right walls and you can hear the air flow the breeze and your breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I invite you Arielle to turn turn your attention, very much to this imagery. There we go. Yeah, if you're comfortable, you can always open when you need some relief.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you're as comfortable to try and bring yourself to this moment again.
Gwenevere Abriel: The temperature is very cool. And there's a ceiling fan.
Gwenevere Abriel: The scent is would see no awareness of any particular taste and you had walked into the room. The door you notice is white. White trim around the door. The door is like has around arch. It's made of wood.
Gwenevere Abriel: The door locks have a regular gold metal door handle you can lock from the inside, and it is locked
Gwenevere Abriel: And looking out the window. The feet feel the hard brown wood flooring.
Gwenevere Abriel: And noticing. It's cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's also this sense of soft and grainy.
Gwenevere Abriel: The hands are together in front of me relaxed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Emotions calm.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then there's a noticing of butterflies in the stomach and the message of those butterflies is a good feeling. Maybe I feel happy to be happy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Running around like fly and play and running so excited, playing with Barbies Barbie castle seeing little pink twin bed with a canopy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Looks like the walls are pink.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just the right temperature feeling playful.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then this introduction of this misinformation came about and it was that my mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was not a liar.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the misinformation. She would say things that now I know
Gwenevere Abriel: She was not right about a lot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Everything is too good to be true.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing is as it appears, people are terrible.
Gwenevere Abriel: Little about and Arielle face to face each other in the room a little bell ass. Were you scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Me adult self says definitely scared, but I did it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the adult
Gwenevere Abriel: I believe says something like, be strong, maybe this is advice and do not worry about what other people think. So I'm just going to write the word
Gwenevere Abriel: advises you strong and do not worry about what
Gwenevere Abriel: If something bad happens. There's nothing you can do or say take it if I think it's if we change it if it's from an instrument if if something bad happens, and there is nothing you can do or say, take a deep breath and walk away.
Gwenevere Abriel: If mean kids call you names make fun or make you feel bad about yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would hug you and tell you I love you.
Gwenevere Abriel: It feels good.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't think she knew how to do that. I think you're talking about your mother.
Gwenevere Abriel: Neither did my brothers and sisters
Gwenevere Abriel: So was maybe mother not showing affection to to siblings. Is that what that was.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, I don't think she knew
Ariel Mirabal: Really, how to do that with us because it didn't she didn't get a lot of that when she was a child.
Gwenevere Abriel: She loved us. But she was never able to show a lot of caring and love. I feel sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what are you noticing right now. What's happening for you now.
Ariel Mirabal: I feel like I mean just currently in life.
Gwenevere Abriel: In this moment. Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: I feel like I want to focus really hard on doing things different from my daughter.
Ariel Mirabal: The future.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm always thinking about that.
Ariel Mirabal: I want my daughter to have everything I did not have even things I feel I didn't
Ariel Mirabal: Know, so I try to go above and beyond. Sometimes, and I think that I even overwhelm myself like I'm trying to merge.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm.
Ariel Mirabal: Right, that's I thought about first
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You, you're in thoughts of wanting to change the dynamic, you know, change the future change a generation. I'm not be what you experienced
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, make sure that my daughter feels all the love that she can feel
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And is there any
Gwenevere Abriel: Sense for a moment as I was kind of attempting to bring you back to the space.
Gwenevere Abriel: At any moment. We've actually felt what Lola Bell felt
Ariel Mirabal: As we get deeper into the conversation, usually it's a certain point where I really do start to feel that way. But like yet. Last week I did, and I don't think I'm to that we just yet.
Ariel Mirabal: Maybe it's like trying not to.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know that looks. That's how it looks. And so maybe what we'll do is we'll do a different activity and this because it's
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll happen in its own time. So I'd like to do something a little different, but it does require a little bit of preparation. Do you happen to have
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't have to be two chairs. But let me show you what I'm hoping for. You'd have to turn your camera down so that I could see you into two chairs.
Gwenevere Abriel: Obviously can't be in one place. A two places at one time, but it's called an empty chair technique so
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd be able to see a chair here. See how my couch is here and then I would have a seat here and then in practice this is what would happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'd be here you'd be obviously I'd be guiding you the whole time. You don't have to know what's up and I can explain what I'm about to do. But you'd be here, and then I'd say switch
Gwenevere Abriel: Up here. And I'd say, switch. So there's this movement, but you'd still be in my frame and still be able to see both of you, you know, in these two roles. Do you happen either have an edge of a bed and a chair, you could bring so that I could see both seated spots.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm actually in my daughter's play rooms so there's not that chair but
Gwenevere Abriel: On a couple chairs from the dining room maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: A couple. Yeah, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, take your time, I'm going to update some notes while you do that, that's perfect.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is impromptu
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, smaller chairs.
Ariel Mirabal: The same size, though, they're like my daughter was little chairs those
Gwenevere Abriel: At depends on you. Are they gonna work for you.
Going to be saying
Ariel Mirabal: Let me just figure out where to
Gwenevere Abriel: Be able to see you know you and each one
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, missy.
Ariel Mirabal: I put the song.
Ariel Mirabal: Are kind of low
So this would be
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I would say tilting down. I see more the fan, you can
Gwenevere Abriel: Get almost there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't care.
Gwenevere Abriel: About say
Gwenevere Abriel: I think that can work that can work. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So yes, you do want them facing each other. I was good. Just the way you've had that facing each other. Yeah, that's beautiful. So
Gwenevere Abriel: The setup is together and I kind of gave you an overview. So let's stand up together and stand back from those two chairs and you're going to make a decision about who's in what so the chairs and you're going to look at them. So, stand back and look at these two chairs.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so a little, a little explanation. So the activity. I want to do today is it's a psychodynamic activity based sort of insert of Freud's theory. So pretty old.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it comes from Fritz pearls work and you don't have to do the analysis. Remember, I'm here. You just whatever that thought is you share it, and then I'm going to guide and I'll probably say switch. So as you're standing here looking at these two chairs. Now, are you sitting in one
Ariel Mirabal: No, I was just spread between them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh ok ok so good. We're looking at them. And what I'd like you to think about is this in one of those chairs is going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: The child aspect of the self. So in this psychodynamic theory. There are three ego states, in a sense, there's this parent state. I was thinking of it like the waggling finger like a you better. You must you oughta right this sort of parent figure with all the rules and doctrines and
Gwenevere Abriel: A culture, even on oftentimes it's this parent. And then there is the child ego state, and that is the embodiment, which means it's basically all of the emotions. So it's sad it's happy it's terrified. It's jealous. It's got rage envy. It's really the embodiment of
Gwenevere Abriel: Not only emotions, but also creativity and spontaneity. I mean think about you know that younger self isn't really preoccupied with what right, wrong, you know, rules. It's more open to whatever it's inspired by but very much thinking about that it represents the emotional self. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then there's this one in the middle.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now this one in the middle is the adult. So you've got carrot adult in the middle and child.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now the adult ego state is the ideal. It's the one that knows how to modulate, which means it can sort of address the parent and it can meet the needs also have the child is in the mill almost constantly assessing chronic parent and an inner child state.
Gwenevere Abriel: Today, what I'd like to do is I'd like to have
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's why I want you to look at one of these chairs, once you look one of these chairs and see if you know which one may be Lou LaBelle might be seated in and then you
Gwenevere Abriel: The adult or maybe it is
Gwenevere Abriel: The parent. Your mother might actually be in the other one. I'm not quite sure yet. And that can change. And all you have to do is just, I'll just say, Okay, let's let's switch this out.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I want you to look at these two chairs and don't rush it. Just take your time and see what's this conversation between what, which one would with the child sense of self, all those emotions being
Gwenevere Abriel: Just start with that.
Ariel Mirabal: I see the blue sure we were
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I've got it's over on my left, and it's your right. So, but for me, it'll be here on my left hand side notes. And so over there to your left. And who's going to be there. Do you get a sense that this is parent state or this is adult that's kind of your first response to that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. So, um, have a seat in adult and so adult is
Gwenevere Abriel: Basically, as you are yellow. Okay, so we're going to kind of go with that. So we've got Arielle and Lavelle
Gwenevere Abriel: So, nice and slow. And remember, you don't have to explain anything to me. So I'm here, I can do that part.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I'd like you to do is I want you to look at little bell
Gwenevere Abriel: Obviously your imagination and of course you can. Giggle if you if that comes up, because this is she's not really there, you're not crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: But really get a sense
Gwenevere Abriel: Get a sense if she can look you in the eye, she can make contact with you I contact, see if you guys can do that or if you're willing to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice the first response. Can you guys look at each other.
Ariel Mirabal: I don't think she can look at me directly, but I can look at her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and what she doing
Ariel Mirabal: Just kind of looking around.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, she's checking it out. Okay, so let's switch head over there.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just sort of get embodied in that being looking around, get a sense of how it feels to be you looking around.
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: You could identify how you were feeling emotionally
Gwenevere Abriel: As we
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, as you were asked and invited to look at Oriel and you looked around and weren't quite able to give
Gwenevere Abriel: The adult self eye contact when emotion. Are you feeling, though the
Ariel Mirabal: Nervous or scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So switch
Gwenevere Abriel: You're gonna get your exercise. This morning we're looking for some exercise.
Gwenevere Abriel: glutes.
Gwenevere Abriel: I should do it with you if I exercise.
Gwenevere Abriel: So okay, so. Oh my goodness. Do you see her. Do you, did you hear what she said. So pay attention to. Okay, remembering what she said. And I'd like you to
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like you to a mirror of her now mirroring is saying back the word she said maybe even in a Sweet. Comforting validating tone, you know, seeking to maybe reassure a little that she's
Gwenevere Abriel: She's heard at least you know it seems weird. Yes, go ahead.
Gwenevere Abriel: Go ahead, you're
Scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're nervous and scared. Is that what you said. Yeah. Okay. All right. All right. So then, and then how was her her ideas now.
Ariel Mirabal: She's looking directly at me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And how do you feel as she looks at you.
Ariel Mirabal: You like she feels heard
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, okay. So mission accomplished and
Gwenevere Abriel: So, but what about your own emotion. How do you label your own emotion right now.
Ariel Mirabal: Say,
Ariel Mirabal: Comfortable.
Ariel Mirabal: Maybe
Like
Ariel Mirabal: The word I'm looking for.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So why don't you tell me about that. That's how you're feeling right now and let's let's see what happens.
Ariel Mirabal: I feel comfortable and
Gwenevere Abriel: When you were you able to look out or when you sit down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And house, her face.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, very drawn very blank.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, alright. So, switch
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you think that you could tell Arielle what you would like to be doing right now.
Ariel Mirabal: Until you go
Ariel Mirabal: To be doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, right now, it'll move fast to try to catch it soon as it was asked.
Ariel Mirabal: Wearing outside
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay so switch
Gwenevere Abriel: So validate that. So right so it's little bell. So right now, if I understand you correctly, you kind of want to be playing outside right now.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let her know, You
Gwenevere Abriel: Know that
Ariel Mirabal: Is that what you want to do go outside and play right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so you turn to me. But that's perfect. So ask her.
Ariel Mirabal: Is that what you want to do.
Ariel Mirabal: Is go outside or yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: And what did she do when you just asked her.
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you feeling right now.
Ariel Mirabal: Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's gossip for a second. You and I are going to talk
Gwenevere Abriel: I noticed the way you said it to me, had a lightness to it a giggle but when you spoke to her. It got kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't, I don't know what it was, but it sounded, it was less giggle more serious and I type something changed versus the way you said it to me.
Ariel Mirabal: I think it's just because I'm not actually talking to a person
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: A little weird.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, felt weird. There we go. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm feeling
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Weird.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, some more about more about the activity, then talking to this self. Okay, got it. So, feeling weird, but she she got excited. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you ask her if it would be okay before she goes out to play if
Gwenevere Abriel: You talked about feelings for just a few minutes.
Ariel Mirabal: I would say
Ariel Mirabal: Okay, if we talk about
Ariel Mirabal: Your feelings.
Ariel Mirabal: A few minutes before we come outside and play.
Gwenevere Abriel: switch seats.
Gwenevere Abriel: And Lou, the bell. Can you respond to real
Ariel Mirabal: Sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we want to. She says it'll just be human body it, it'll be first person. Sure. Right. It'll be up. It is the self, you won't have to do. She so okay great so um
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright so switch
Gwenevere Abriel: check in on what emotion you have RL right now. What's going on for you now.
Ariel Mirabal: Almost like nervous about her emotions.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So the invitation was to talk about emotions and you narrowed it on your own independently to just hers.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe we could open that invitation up a little bit to just feelings of both of you. It isn't just hers. Can we talk about feelings for a little while before we go out to play right
Gwenevere Abriel: So it wasn't just hers.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was my invitation. Okay. But there's a nervousness now for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So why don't you tell LaBelle about your nervousness, see if you can tell her. Take your time on this one.
Ariel Mirabal: I am nervous.
Ariel Mirabal: To
Ariel Mirabal: I am a little bit nervous.
Ariel Mirabal: Just as you might be to talk about
Ariel Mirabal: Feelings. We can talk about our feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So LaBelle. Can you tell your mom if you understand what she's talking about.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: How do you feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice switch
Ariel Mirabal: Excited.
Gwenevere Abriel: So switch
Gwenevere Abriel: And what about you, are you
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you feeling
Ariel Mirabal: As adults, so
Ariel Mirabal: Right now in general. How am I feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll let you know when we're coming back to just client therapist. We're going to stay in this activity. It is okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So why don't we do this, why don't you mirror so we can get back to it just mirror. A little about she what she said.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can help if you forgot
Ariel Mirabal: You feel excited. She said she was excited. So I would repeat it back to her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just didn't do it. You don't have to explain what you're doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is first person, all the way through.
Ariel Mirabal: You feel excited
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay and then let her know how you're doing almost to get into some content here.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm excited.
Ariel Mirabal: To go outside and play.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Sing
Ariel Mirabal: Let's see.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm happy. Awesome.
Ariel Mirabal: Having to, I would say, I'm happy to
Ariel Mirabal: I want to know.
Ariel Mirabal: How you feel every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so much
Ariel Mirabal: Most days I'm happy. Some days I'm sad.
Ariel Mirabal: That makes you sad hurts your feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so much
Ariel Mirabal: See my mom said
Gwenevere Abriel: More time okay switch mom said on time and
Gwenevere Abriel: Respond.
Ariel Mirabal: To see
Ariel Mirabal: I'm just remembering that
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait, so I'm going to be therapist. I'm I have my two states here and I got this pang of concern. I don't know why I did like like we're going to go to solution really fast.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what's going on. All right, let me just say
Gwenevere Abriel: I know it's hard to see.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know. Did you finish that thought.
Ariel Mirabal: I know it's hard to see.
Gwenevere Abriel: To see
Gwenevere Abriel: To see what
Gwenevere Abriel: Let her know, You see
Ariel Mirabal: I know it's hard to see.
Ariel Mirabal: You constantly sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's it like for you let her know you you relate on on an emotional level.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is validation where we take our own experience. And we kind of go into
Ariel Mirabal: Quite a bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: You
Ariel Mirabal: I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I interrupted you. The tele health isn't too smooth means I cut you off sometimes so finished that piece. It's important I have learned and share that with her.
Ariel Mirabal: I have learned over time.
Ariel Mirabal: That
Ariel Mirabal: Things always get better.
Ariel Mirabal: There are ways to help
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, switch
Gwenevere Abriel: Respond to that well.
Ariel Mirabal: What can I do to make it better. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really see her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at her. Her smallness that she's asking you.
Ariel Mirabal: Sometimes
Ariel Mirabal: There is
Ariel Mirabal: Sometimes, there isn't anything that you could do to make things better, but you can always make
Ariel Mirabal: Trying to make it a little better for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at her face. She know what you're talking about.
Ariel Mirabal: She's confused.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so switch
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you tell the adults can you tell Arielle how you're feeling and
Ariel Mirabal: Use
Ariel Mirabal: What do you mean
Gwenevere Abriel: About how to make it better for myself.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes. What do you mean by I can make
Ariel Mirabal: Things better for myself if I catch
Gwenevere Abriel: Your own time.
Ariel Mirabal: Control.
Ariel Mirabal: The way that your mind works and then try to create some place of happiness or
Ariel Mirabal: When you see her crying when you see your side to a happy place in the House do something that you love and just really try not to focus on her being so sad because
Ariel Mirabal: Sometimes, she's just
Ariel Mirabal: Going to be sad and sometimes Verizon.
Gwenevere Abriel: And take a look a little bell how she has her Facebook but she doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, switch
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you share
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're thinking about how you feeling
Ariel Mirabal: Wish I could make her feel better all the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, switch
Ariel Mirabal: I always wished I could make her feel better all the time.
Ariel Mirabal: So,
Ariel Mirabal: But I have learned
Ariel Mirabal: That sometimes i i can't and
Ariel Mirabal: I have to
Ariel Mirabal: To help myself not get
Ariel Mirabal: Upset
By that
Gwenevere Abriel: Does she look like she understands what you're saying.
Ariel Mirabal: Sounds better
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's switch
Gwenevere Abriel: Where
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to go out in place and this is a chance for you to get all the information that you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there anything you want from
Gwenevere Abriel: Anyone
Ariel Mirabal: Everybody
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay switch
Gwenevere Abriel: Really see her. This is going to give her permission.
Gwenevere Abriel: To really go out and play.
Ariel Mirabal: Really hard work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, that's right. So let's let's stop right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And tell me your therapist why that's hard.
Ariel Mirabal: Stock on what I would say to that, you know, and she said, I just wanted to know that everybody is going to be okay. It's like
Ariel Mirabal: We can't really
Ariel Mirabal: predict the future. But what would I say to a young child so small and to explain, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't get too lost
Gwenevere Abriel: In in in that that's that's that's missing.
Gwenevere Abriel: The point of it just by a hairline. You come back to really Arielle tell me your therapist. Why is it difficult for you to tell
Gwenevere Abriel: The self everything's gonna be okay. Tell me why that's so hard.
Ariel Mirabal: Because sometimes they don't feel okay right
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Hard
Ariel Mirabal: Times time and I don't want to discourage her
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, and scare her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, don't, don't just a way to protecting her
Gwenevere Abriel: So you are her
Gwenevere Abriel: You're uncertain that everything's going to be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's why we're here. That's why we're doing this this work together.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a really important piece and you got there. You found your way.
Gwenevere Abriel: If we can't say it to ourselves if we can't know it for ourselves. It's darn near impossible to genuinely teach it reassure it to live it when we don't have that face already
Gwenevere Abriel: That knowing and not really knowing and that's what faith is it's I know I'll be okay i don't know how i don't have to
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't have to know how I'm going to be okay. I just know I will be and if for no other reason because the alternative
Gwenevere Abriel: Is suffering and misery.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I'm not okay. The world is constantly in flux and groundless and scary and
Gwenevere Abriel: Constantly grasping for facts and being correct and right and looking for precision and certainty, when there is none. There is no amount they can fill that space. We just ran into just now.
Gwenevere Abriel: No momentary interpersonal being correct in that moment will fill it. It's not the same.
Gwenevere Abriel: As knowing on sort of that spiritual level.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know how I'm going to be okay. I just do. That's what faith is that's and I'm not trying to put the God in this. I'm trying to just put it's the abyss of unknown. We can't tell the future and so
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a deliberate, intentional.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thought I know I'm going to be okay. I know, because I'm okay right now. I feel my body. Now I can look back in time and say this was hard and sad and scary and guess what
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's all we've got. And I wish I had something else, but I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: If you had formal religion, you could go there though they'll give you some if you don't, if this isn't enough. You know, I'm trying to say. You can grab ahold of there's formal religion that will give you the bridge. It'll say, do these
Gwenevere Abriel: Things.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's how you know you'll be okay. You could do that. But psychology offers this
Ariel Mirabal: I like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this space we're ending in right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want I want if we could pick it right back up. How in whatever shape or form because it'll, it'll show up in its many different ways. It's probably if it's a theme, it will show up all over the place and it's the, I don't know that I'm going to be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And if you take that and where you started, which was I, I want this connection with our lean. I want to feel close
Gwenevere Abriel: For you, what's the connection even, even if it's barely any connection at all, just take a second and kind of kind of think about that for a moment.
Ariel Mirabal: By me thinking that things are never going to get better.
Ariel Mirabal: Situation, particularly, it's like a really negative outlook.
On
Ariel Mirabal: The situation itself.
Ariel Mirabal: Instead of just saying, well,
Ariel Mirabal: Things are going to get better somehow
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
We have to
Gwenevere Abriel: relieve some pressure
Ariel Mirabal: I think so.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe still important, but not quite as urgent.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, I mean,
Ariel Mirabal: I still
Ariel Mirabal: A lot of what
Ariel Mirabal: goes on. I always still sometimes I'm like how why
Ariel Mirabal: Like why did that happen. How could like things that I don't think I could have changed.
Ariel Mirabal: And I think that I didn't do my were saying myself or, you know, things like that. But just kind of came out from the other end.
So,
Ariel Mirabal: And I get that.
Ariel Mirabal: Like, oh, I couldn't have done anything to change that, you know, and she said or did. So it's like, is this going to keep going on so that I have that negative outlook instead of this is going to get better somehow
Ariel Mirabal: So hard
Gwenevere Abriel: In my suspicion is real. The key is
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whatever happens, I'm like, I agree. Someone like someone else or someone says something nasty or mean I'm okay.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: This history of growing up. Not feeling okay
Gwenevere Abriel: might still be following you and
Gwenevere Abriel: It might take if we're on if this hypothesis that we just kind of bumped into just now.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it's at the core of what's keeping you from
Gwenevere Abriel: Just accepting people just the way they are and not having to be correct. And right in that moment, you know when that argument like clearly you're wrong, like kind of those moments.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, because those show up. Right.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: What being okay with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really and truly actually believing it will free you up.
Gwenevere Abriel: To then
Gwenevere Abriel: Really looking at Arlene types, right, the rest of the world, basically.
Gwenevere Abriel: With genuine curiosity. Will you no longer see them as a threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you're ready in your argument.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because ultimately, you don't need to do that, you're already okay but right now this is just philosophical because I don't think in your core. You know that yet.
Gwenevere Abriel: Saw that
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that play out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so when moments like that feel sharp and acute, that means just like right in the moment, there might be this urgency to either escape it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Party drink get high right that's to get out of the intensity of how awful because I'm not okay is at the core of most people's distress, by the way.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the self.
Gwenevere Abriel: How can I not be okay. Like, that's how do we function without that. That's pretty key. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I'm not okay. Then I'm constantly having to justify my existence defend myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not enough it it spirals down quickly if someone says something that's disapproving and that threatens the little bit of sort of structure and identity that we have
Gwenevere Abriel: It can feel overwhelming.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just take these last few minutes and just see what comes up. What charge might be left in the body what what thoughts come to mind. Maybe we could process further
Ariel Mirabal: This whole
Like
Ariel Mirabal: I don't know the words I'm looking for but having more faith, I guess, having more
Ariel Mirabal: Of a positive trying to look at things in a different way, like nothing's necessarily what people
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Like her trying to maybe
Ariel Mirabal: Instead of always
Ariel Mirabal: Like, you know, like you said, oh, that's obviously wrong, instead of having to always be right on top of something that I know wasn't right, even though it wasn't just trying to be a person that you know
Ariel Mirabal: Is ok and has to get better. You know, things will get better.
Ariel Mirabal: And just being super positive about it and you know again looking at it in a different way, having a positive outlook.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that something you want to experiment with over the coming week or so.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So I have a little sentence a self talk statement which it's it's not just a statement. It's an action which means it's in our cognitive action, but it's a hard one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to give it to you and then you decide
Ariel Mirabal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it looks like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your initial reaction is going to be defensiveness, you're going to be insulted. It's going to happen because this you've been doing. We all do. We all do.
Gwenevere Abriel: We all do it still stings stings, everybody. We all want approval want to just find think everybody thanks for a fantastic. So you're not you're not broken.
Gwenevere Abriel: Either that or we all are. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that's because we're wired for attachment. So let's put that aside series still really
Gwenevere Abriel: That's not going anywhere. We're going to care about what other people say, and think, because we're socialized creatures, that's not going anywhere. It's still going to stay
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you go to and this is the invitation. If you want to play with it this week. It's this and it's not an easy one to do but the thought goes like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: What is the most generous assumption I can make about her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Generous meaning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because notice the original one. Is she thinks I'm stupid. She thinks I screwed up that little right that's the first. That's the ouch. Now why the intervention is this. What's the most generous assumption I can make about her intention.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's trying to help. She's doing the best she can she's pissed off, she's disappointed.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's might be overwhelmed. She doesn't know how to ask for help, she's hungry. She's tired. She's lonely. SHE'S DISAPPOINTED IN HER OWN blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is an intervention and it is not an easy one to do
Gwenevere Abriel: Because your habit is you have this big brain that stores great facts that goes to morals and values and you you get up your hooks on a real solid, right, wrong one. When you see someone doing something wrong. Right. And you're like, gotcha.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, this one. Y'all are going down because I know y'all are down on this one. I got my facts on this one. Yeah, no, you're wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: But here's, here's what that reinforces when you do that old style. It's basically saying that you have to defend the self it reinforces insecurity, if you can believe it. I know that seems just like I do, but instead if you do this one, which is
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right, now I'm like I'm so offended. Oh. That's so rude. I would never do that. Oh, rude rude rude rude rude. Selfish, selfish selfish.
Gwenevere Abriel: What is the most generous assumption I can make
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, she gets sleep last night. She's a little grumpy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know as soon as you have that thought and it's you just made it up. You don't know. You could check it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: But just holding that generous thought in your mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you picture how different your body's going to feel how your emotion is going to change from anger rage irritation discuss repulsion maybe to like a softening
Gwenevere Abriel: To compassion because you to have gone without sleep and then have been irritable just even imagining the most generous of assumptions changes the way we feel
Ariel Mirabal: I think I've been able to do it like a couple of times, but out of like a million.
Ariel Mirabal: And I totally remember to it feeling it does, it feels really good inside it makes you feel happy.
Ariel Mirabal: You feel like that.
Ariel Mirabal: That could have gotten really, I could have gone the opposite direction. But I handled it pretty well. Like, you know, I remember feeling pretty happy about the situation.
Ariel Mirabal: And it does do is, it's just like you said, it's really hard. It's hard to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the side. I mean, there's plenty of argument. Anyone could say to me, well, well, that doesn't sound very assertive and maybe I'm sick and tired of being a doormat, and I don't want to put up with it anymore. And maybe that's not what I need.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's plenty of argument to the contrary. But that wasn't the focus of today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Today was about. I don't, I see you as someone has has the ability to assert, you can speak. You know, it's funny people that just can't.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so, assertive is is the area that kind of like let's hone that skill. It's hone that skill. Um, but right now, just based on what we did today, you just be okay with you, just the way it is not having to have someone think of you in a particular way.
Gwenevere Abriel: That that can be out there, but they can have misinformation about you. They're misinformed. They're angry they think I did something I didn't. And I'm still okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Hard to do so the experiment. If you're up to. It is to see if you can remember. I noticed you didn't write it down. So my dying be remembered.
Ariel Mirabal: Remember it. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well, but that's the experiment. Will it be remembered. Will you
Gwenevere Abriel: Do it, which has the thought and then how will it feel, then you can come back and tell me all about it. You can say, oh, I didn't work. Oh, mercy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I just stayed angry all day or yeah and then all of a sudden something changed her face and then we have we made breakfast together or no then it escalated or so whatever happens. I'm curious about it. I don't
Ariel Mirabal: Buy it very, very, I am curious to know, like I said, I remember a couple of times I've done it in my life, but
Ariel Mirabal: I can say it's been quite a while. So I definitely would like to experiment with that. This week I'm going to do that.
Ariel Mirabal: And then just so I can make sure it stays in my head through the week. It's what is the nicest thing I can assume what is the nicest assumption that I can make about her. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: My, my wording is a little different. What that's fine, whatever works, whatever you're going to remember
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, remember, then go with that. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm
Ariel Mirabal: Sorry, I just want to remember that anytime of, like, whatever it might be.
Ariel Mirabal: Any disagreement or anything. I even noticed it's not even there yet. It's just
Ariel Mirabal: I definitely try this and see how
Ariel Mirabal: It goes
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: Maybe no one wants to
Gwenevere Abriel: And just know that that's not the end of the story. That's, that's one piece of a complex interaction, right, our human interactions, they're complex there's so subtle all these nonverbal communications, etc. So, um, let's take a look at next week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Four. Do I need to message the dark, are you all just let her know you're here.
Ariel Mirabal: And then she can take a graph, I'm fine right now. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So you want to stick with this one for me 20
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, and on Wednesdays 16
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we're good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Sounds good.